The utilization of social media security is now a 
topic that is discussed widely. People still do not seem to have a 
concern about security of social media. In this current literature 
critical review, we are discussing some of the most important 
qualitative studies that explore and research about the use of 
social media security. Social media includes a wide range of 
websites and apps like Twitter, Facebook and Instagram. All the 
social media connect with each other and exchange information, 
so users should be mindful of the drawbacks and impacts of 
using social media sites. We consider the history of social media 
and the need of social media to highlight the background social
media’s background. Then we address the social media’s idea 
security and the social media security risks with the challenges. 
We conclude with a discussion of potential steps for future of 
social media security/ possible solutions for security.




Social networks are now a part of human life. Interact online, communicate and share
interests, allowing people to create online profiles that can be viewed by other users. These are the basic
features offered by most of the social networking sites. Unfortunately, in many cases, users are not even
aware of the disclosure of their personal information through profiles. their Leakage of users' personal
information can happen in a variety of ways. Many of the security risks associated with the use of social
networks are discussed in this document. In addition, the issue of privacy and its connection with security is
described. Based on these discussions, some key points are provided to improve a user’s privacy and security
on social networks. Our inquest will help the readers to understand the security and privacy issues for the
social network users, and this research will help the user.






With fast-growing technology, online social networks (OSNs) have exploded in popularity over 
the past few years. The pivotal reason behind this phenomenon happens to be the ability of OSNs 
to provide a platform for users to connect with their family, friends, and colleagues. The information 
shared in social network and media spreads very fast, almost instantaneously which makes it 
attractive for attackers to gain information. Secrecy and surety of OSNs need to be inquired from 
various positions. There are numerous security and privacy issues related to the user’s shared information 
especially when a user uploads personal content such as photos, videos, and audios. The attacker 
can maliciously use shared information for illegitimate purposes. The risks are even higher if children 
are targeted. To address these issues, this paper presents a thorough review of different security and 
privacy threats and existing solutions that can provide security to social network users. 
We have also discussed OSN attacks on various OSN web applications by citing some statistics reports. 
In addition to this, we have discussed numerous defensive approaches to OSN security. 
Finally, this survey discusses open issues, challenges, and relevant security guidelines to 
achieve trustworthiness in online social networks.